---
title: "A Newsboat Bookmarking Plugin for Evernote"
date: 2018-02-22T14:53:13-05:00
---

I've been using `newsboat` to keep up with blogs and other news. I wrote a small plugin to bookmark articles I read in newsboat to Evernote.

<!--more-->

## Newsboat?

[Newsboat](https://newsboat.org/) is an open source RSS reader for your terminal. 

I've used RSS readers for over a decade to keep track of news and blogs. It's most useful because you can keep a simple record of what you've read, and get all of your reading in a single place. For blogs and other syndicated content that I want to keep up with, RSS is usually easiset. Back in the day this was all the rage, but a lot of sites have removed the easy access to their feed. The good news is that feeds are autimatically generated by almost all blog software, so usually you can find a feed by typing `/feed` or `/rss` to the end of a blog URL. 

It keeps things easy and let's me keep up with the latest on tech news and some of my favorite blogs, even the ones that only post sporadically. 

## Evernote Bookmark Plugin

Newsboat has a built in bookmarking feature that allows you to save a link. It uses a plugin system to let users easily send bookmarks to the app of their choice. 

There are a few in the main repo contrib folder that show an implementation for Pinboard and a few other services. I use Evernote as a general purpose store-for-later box, but there wasn't a Newsboat plugin to save bookmarks to Evernote.

Luckily, it was easy enough to make one with a few lines of bash script. 

I used `geeknote`, a command line utility for Evernote, so it was a matter of just piping in the correct content to geeknote's flags. 

Here is the plugin:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
#basic newsboat bookmark plugin for evernote

url="$1"
title="$2"
description="$3"
feed_title="$4"

content="${url}"$'\n'"${description}"$'\n'"${feed_title}"

geeknote create --title "${title}" --content "${content}"

```
